#summary How to setup WiiRemoteJ
#labels WiiRemoteJ

= Introduction =

WiiRemoteJ is java library that implements the WiiMote protocol.
It has been developed by Michael Diamond, aka Cha0s, thanks Micheal !

A nice video introduction to the library can be seen here:
http://www.dailymotion.com/video/x1hrfl_wiiremotej_tech

The library is publicly available on Micheal's website here:
http://www.world-of-cha0s.hostrocket.com/WiiRemoteJ/

Please download the full library with sources and documentation if you want to use it outside this implementation.

I have added the binary file (WiiRemoteJ.jar) in Libraries directory, the version I'm using is the 1.6, the latest one I think.


= Requirements =

The library requires a an implementation of JSR082, the bluetooth abstraction for Java. Its requirements are quite heavy in terms of the capabilities of the Bluetooth stack.

I am currently developing in Windows Vista, using a Belkin USB Bluetooth dongle.
Am overview about Bluetoth stacks in Windows is available here:
http://www.wiimoteproject.com/bluetooth-and-connectivity-knowledge-center/a-summary-of-windows-bluetooth-stacks-and-their-connection/?PHPSESSID=2fba19432f28d6e27f0b860485fc263b

I have tried the standard Windows, Toshiba and Bluesoleil bluetooth stacks and they are still too limited to work with WiiRemoteJ.
It seems that only the Widcomm stack has all the capabilities that are required.
You can find Widcomm (free) driver here:
http://www.broadcom.com/support/bluetooth/update.php

Be sure that you bluetooth hardware is supported by this driver.

I haven't tried it on linux nor MacOs, but is seems that the task is easier.

On top of the bluetooth stack you also need a JSR082 implementation. There are plenty of them, but I have preferred an open source one, that seems to be quite advanced and compatible with many operating systems and stacks:
http://bluecove.org/


= Capabilities=

The library is pretty powerful and supports all the functionalities offered by the hardware.

A good tutorial about how to use it is here:
http://sdpagent.blogspot.com/2009/07/getting-started-with-wiiremotej.html

In my first implementations I will just use the accelerometers inputs and the buttons.